The Joe Rogan experience. I saw the one guy, uh,
you've got dqued right? Yeah. Yeah. That's brutal.
Just a straight knee to the face while you're on the ground. Yeah.
Super unfortunate. And one of his coaches was yelling, just punches,
just punches. Oh yeah. Marcos tomato. Who's a, the, uh, his name is nicknames.
[inaudible] is the jiu-jitsu coach.
And one of the coaches for American top team and he's yelling out, just punches,
just punches.
And then someone else in the coach is yelling Russian in Russia. And they're,
you know, the yellow won't appeal to, to hit him. And, you know,
cause he's thinking that the guys it's confusing to some fighters.
When is a downed opponent, a grounded opponent is technically.
I'm sure if he's hunched over, it's like, wait, is this foot, is his knee down?
Or is.
Well, here's the thing. If you have your feet down, but one hand down,
you're not grounded. If you have to,
maybe Nevada's still Nevada uses a hybrid version of
the new, uh, mixed martial arts rules. It used to be,
um, anytime you had a hand down at all,
you were a grounded opponent and then they switched it to,
if you have two hands down, you're grounded opponent.
But if you have a knee down, you're a grounded opponent.
So he had a knee and two hands. So he was, he was grounded. I mean, it was like,
there was no question about it. He was grounded,
but I think maybe he thought he was coming up and peeled or tried to catch him,
catch him as he was coming up. But it was a hundred percent illegal. Yeah.
I mean that's so you could see it here at sea. He see he's got one hand down.
Yeah. He's got one hand. No, it doesn't have both of his hands.
So maybe that's what he thought.
Maybe it was because the knee was down in both hands were up.
He thought he wasn't grounded. Yeah. Maybe that's why he was confused,
but it's a hundred percent.
Illegal for both of them. See if.
You, you hear your coach yelling, hit them, see, see,
even I'm like thinking like, okay, is that grounded or is not grounded.
I know it's I know it's grounded because this has come up before,
because it used to be that when your hands were down, then it was grounded.
Yeah. But then big John McCarthy explained to me, no, no, no.
Anything other than the surface of your feet on your legs, like, so your knee,
if your knee is down, that means you're grounded opponent.
Like w would that guy like, is he coming over from a different fighting league?
He's the champion. No, he's the champion. It's just,
there's different versions of the rules. Right? In some places,
a grounded opponent. You,
what is the new version of the, the rule? There's a,
one of the new versions of the rule is if you are putting weight on your hand,
so like, you can touch it, but you can't, if you have weight on it,
then you're grounded opponent. But if you're just touching,
that's not a grounded opponent. All right. That's.
As soon as you allow opinion to come in, it's like,
well then there's the debate on like, was that the right call, bad call?
It's like just set up a clear definitive rule. Right?
Well, there's other folks that also think, well,
why isn't that illegal technique? Well,
how could we go punch him in the face again, NEMA in the face. This is stupid.
Like, why can't you get, well, how come you can't kick them in the face?
How come when a guy's lying on his back, he can kick you in the face,
but you can't kick him in the face.
That seems stupid to from 2018 Nevada rules on it. This is the new,
the Nevada has a hybrid version. It didn't adopt a new ground rule, I think,
unless they've changed it since then. Yeah.
I think this is to be considered grounded.
This is a more technical piece.
The new rules pertains to that of a grounded opponent,
which states a fighter must have both of their hands down on the ground,
whether it's be palms or fists for them to be considered grounded unless a knee
or anything other than the soul's kicks or knee strikes to the head of a
grounded Stryker or fighter rather, therefore is illegal. However,
the Nevada state athletic commission will not be adopting this part of the new
rules. And we're stick with the old definition for grounded fighter,
which means anything but the soles of the feet. Okay.
So that's why it's confusing. So the grounded opponent thing,
the fighter must have both their hands down on the ground.
That's what it used to be.
Whether it be palms or fist for them to be considered grounded unless a knee or
other than the soles of the feet are down as well.
So either way he was grounded because there was a knee down.
So it was a illegal technique all over the world. That one, that move,
which is unfortunate. I mean,
that's going to suck for him of like he was winning the fight too.
That's what sucked pewter Yon was a, he,
it looked like he was starting to gain control of the fight.
And I think it was in the fourth round. Was it the fourth round?
It was a good fight though. Really good fight.
And I'm sure they're going to have a rematch.
And the rematch will be super hyped up, you know,
but he had dropped Aljamain and he had taken him down and tripped him,
slammed him to the ground a few times.
And it looked like he was in control of exchanges, but,
but still very good fights catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for
free. Only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan express.